linkedSignal (#16)
angular-schule/website-articles: blog/2024-11-linked-signal/README.md

* [Conclusion](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#conclusion)

<!-- > **🇩🇪 This article is available in German here: [Angular 19: Einführung von LinkedSignal für die lokale reaktionsfähige Zustandsverwaltung](https://angular-buch.com/blog/2024-11-linked-signal)** -->

## What is LinkedSignal?

`linkedSignal` is an experimental signal that Angular 19 introduces to help you manage state that automatically syncs with other signals. In simple terms, it’s a writable signal that resets itself when the value of its source signal changes.

LinkedSignal has the following characteristics:

- **Writable and Reactive**: Like [`signal`](https://angular.dev/guide/signals#writable-signals), we can update the value of a `linkedSignal` manually, but it also responds to changes in its source.
- **A Combination of Signal and Computed**: It’s like [`computed`](https://angular.dev/guide/signals#computed-signals) because it derives its value from other signals, but it stays writable, allowing us to override it when needed.

## Basic Usage of LinkedSignal

To see how it works, let’s look at a complete example. 
Here, we’re using `linkedSignal` to keep track of the first book in a list. 

> Whenever the list of books changes, the `firstBookInList` signal will automatically reset to the first book in the updated list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever the list of books changes, the `firstBook` signal will automatically reset to the first book in the updated list.
```

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-shopping-cart',
  template: `
    <p>Book: {{ selectedBook().title }}</p>
    <input [(ngModel)]="amount" />
  `,
  standalone: true
})
class ShoppingCartComponent {
  selectedBook = input.required<Book>();
  amount = linkedSignal({
    source: this.selectedBook,
    computation: () => 1 // Resets to 1 when selectedBook changes
  });
}
```

In this case, whenever `selectedBook` changes, the `amount` input resets to `1`. 
This pattern is useful in forms where we want fields to return to a default state when certain inputs change.

## Advanced Scenarios for LinkedSignal

### Nested State Management

Suppose you have nested data such as book properties (`title` and `rating`), and we want these fields to reset when a different `book` is selected. 
Here’s how we could manage this with `linkedSignal`:

```typescript
import { Component, input, linkedSignal } from '@angular/core';
import { Book } from './book';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-book',
  template: `
    <p>Title: {{ title() }}</p>
    <p>Rating: {{ rating() }}</p>

    <button (click)="doRateUp()">Rate up!</button> 
  `,
})
class BookComponent  {
  book = input.required<Book>();

>   ratingHasBeenChanged = output<{ isbn: string, newRating: number }>();

Reviewer: Events usually have active verbs like `click`, `focus`, `blur`, `change`, so I'd use `ratingChange` here

```suggestion
  ratingChange = output<{ isbn: string, newRating: number }>();
```

  title = linkedSignal({
    source: this.book,
    computation: book => book.title,
  });

  rating = linkedSignal({
    source: this.book,
    computation: book => book.rating,
  });

  doRateUp() {
    const newRating = this.rating() + 1;

>     this.rating.set(newRating);

Reviewer: not `update()`? 😇

>     this.ratingHasBeenChanged({ 
>       isbn: this.book().isbn(),
>       newRating
>     });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    this.ratingChange.emit({ 
      isbn: this.book().isbn(),
      newRating
    });
```

  }
}
```

With this setup, both `title` and `rating` reset when `book` changes, helping to keep data synchronized in cases where the structure of state is hierarchical or dependent on specific identifiers. 
While the `linkedSignal` makes sure that the data resets when necessary, we can still update our local state directly. 
In this example we update `rating` locally and communicate the change back to the parent component.

### Synchronizing Server-Data for Client-Side Edits

`linkedSignal` can also help when dealing with data from a server that we want to edit locally.
If we're fetching data from an API but need to allow changes on the client side, we can use `linkedSignal` to keep local edits in sync with the original server data.
Here is an example that uses some books from our API:

```typescript
import { Component, inject, linkedSignal } from '@angular/core';
import { BookStoreService } from './book-store.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-dashboard',
  template: `
    <ul>
      @for (book of books(); track book.isbn) {
        <li>{{ book.title }}</li>
      }
    </ul>

>     <button (click)="sortBooks()">Sort books by rating</button>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <button (click)="sortBooks()">Sort books by rating (locally)</button>
```

I had a similar example in the Resource API blogpost and I intentionally called the method `sortBookListLocally` to make this clear.

  `,
})
export class DashboardComponent {
  private bookStore = inject(BookStoreService);

  books = linkedSignal(toSignal(this.bookStore.getAllBooks()));

  sortBooks() {
    const sortedBooks = this.books().toSorted((a, b) => b.rating - a.rating);
    this.books.set(sortedBooks);
  }
}
```

In this example, `books` holds the server data.

> Usually we would directly use `toSignal()` to bridge the gap between the Observable from RxJS and the new signal world. But in this case, we would have no chance to edit the signal in any way (except by updating the Observable). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually we would directly use `toSignal()` to bridge the gap between the Observable from RxJS and the new signal world. However, in this case, we would have no chance to edit the signal in any way (except by updating the Observable). 
```

But with the help of `linkedSignal` we can still modify the data locally, and any major reset (such as a reload) can restore it to the original source if needed. 
In this example we are just sorting the list, but it could be also possible to change data of the books and send the data back to the server.

> There are many ways to leverage to use this new signal in our applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many ways to use this new signal in our applications.
```

## LinkedSignal vs. Other Signals

Here’s a quick comparison of `linkedSignal` with other types of signals in Angular:

> - **`signal()`**: A basic writable signal that maintains its value independently of other signals.
> - **`computed()`**: A read-only signal derived from other signals, recalculating automatically but without allowing manual changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`signal()`**: Creates a basic writable signal that maintains its value independently of other signals.
- **`computed()`**: Creates a read-only signal derived from other signals, recalculating automatically but without allowing manual changes.
```

Reviewer: these functions are not signals but create them

- **`linkedSignal()`**: Combines the reactivity of `computed()` with the mutability of `signal()`, allowing manual updates while staying linked to a source signal.

Use `computed()` for derived data that doesn’t need to be overridden, while `linkedSignal()` is best for state that should reset based on specific dependencies.

## Best Practices for Using LinkedSignal

Here are some tips for using `linkedSignal` effectively:

- **Keep Computation Functions Simple**: Avoid complex calculations in the `computation` function to prevent cyclic dependencies and make your code easier to understand.
- **Use for Resetting Patterns**: `linkedSignal` is ideal for cases where you need to reset a state based on a particular signal, like clearing a form field when a new item is selected.

> - **Consider Effects for Multiple Updates**: If you need multiple signals to react to a single change, using `effect()` might be clearer and more efficient than creating multiple `linkedSignal`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Consider Effects for Multiple Updates**: If you need multiple signals to react to a single change, using `effect()` might be clearer and more efficient than creating multiple instances of `linkedSignal`.
```

---
title: 'Angular 19: Introducing LinkedSignal for Responsive Local State Management'
author: Johannes Hoppe

> mail: team@angular.schule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mail: johannes.hoppe@haushoppe-its.de
```

It lets us create a writable signal that can automatically reset based on changes in other signals. 
This makes it particularly useful for situations where local state needs to stay in sync with dynamic data. 
Here’s a look at what the Linked Signal is, how it works, and some common use cases.

## Contents

* [What is LinkedSignal?](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#what-is-linkedSignal)
* [Basic Usage of LinkedSignal](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#basic-usage-of-linkedSignal)
* [Advanced Scenarios for LinkedSignal](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#advanced-scenarios-for-linkedSignal)
* [LinkedSignal vs. Other Signals](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#linkedSignal-vs-other-signals)
* [Best Practices for Using LinkedSignal](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#best-practices-for-using-linkedSignal)
* [Conclusion](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#conclusion)

<!-- > **🇩🇪 This article is available in German here: [Angular 19: Einführung von LinkedSignal für die lokale reaktionsfähige Zustandsverwaltung](https://angular-buch.com/blog/2024-11-linked-signal)** -->

> ## What is LinkedSignal?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is a Linked Signal?
```

?

A Linked Signal is an experimental feature that Angular 19 introduces to help you manage state that automatically syncs with other signals. 
In simple terms, we receive a writable signal that resets itself when the value of its source signal changes.
A Linked Signal can be created by using the [`linkedSignal()` factory function](https://next.angular.dev/api/core/linkedSignal).

A Linked Signal has the following characteristics:

- **Writable and Reactive**: Like a [`signal`](https://angular.dev/guide/signals#writable-signals), we can update the value of a Linked Signal manually, but it also responds to changes in its source.
- **A Combination of Signal and Computed**: It’s like [`computed`](https://angular.dev/guide/signals#computed-signals) because it derives its value from other signals, but it stays writable, allowing us to override it when needed.

> 

Reviewer: I'm missing a dry example (here or at the beginning of the next section) to understand the API.
You never mention that we don't have to pass in a `source`, but we can use it like `computed()`:

```ts
const timestampMs = signal(Date.now());

// with computed(): not writable
const timestampSeconds = computed(() => timestampMs / 1000);
timestampSeconds.set(0); // ❌ ERROR

const timestampSecondsLinked = linkedSignal(() => timestampMs / 1000);
timestampSecondsLinked.set(0); // ✅
```

Reviewer: Signals created with `computed()` or `linkedSignal()` as seen in this example, always update their value when any of the bound signals changes. If we want to restrict the computation to a specific trigger signal, we can specify a `source`. The following Linked Signal only recomputes its value when the source changes:

```
const timestampSeconds = computed({
  source: timestampMs,
  computation: ms => ms / 1000
});
```

Reviewer: Now why is `source`+`computation` "better" than just a computation function? Are there cases where we need the one or the other?

Reviewer: Interesting: If we just specify a function, this will be the source (shorthand mode). If we specify both source and computation, source will be source, and the computation will be an additional thing. At least that's how I interpret the implementation: https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/packages/core/src/render3/reactivity/linked_signal.ts#L131-L142

Reviewer: Some thoughts on why `computation` could be separate:
- The computation function also receives the previous value. If we need it, `source` is not enough.
- If we don't even need the source value but only use the source as trigger, separate computation is prettier. `() => 1` instead of `() => this.value(); return 1`
- separation looks nicer. We see where the data comes from and we have a separate function to calculate the new data.
- The two signatures of `linkedSignal` call the source function `computation` (shorthand) and `source` (options object). This looks like can be used as the same and make no big technical difference?

## Basic Usage of Linked Signal

> To see how it works, let’s look at a complete example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see how it works, let’s take a look at a complete example. 
```

> Here, we’re using a Linked Signal to keep track of the first book in a list, created by the `linkedSignal()` factory function.
> Whenever the list of books changes, the `firstBook` signal will automatically reset to the first book in the updated list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our component has a list of books in the `books` signal.
Then we’re using a Linked Signal to keep track of the *first book* in the list, created by the `linkedSignal()` factory function.
Whenever the list of books changes, the `firstBook` signal will automatically reset to the first book in the updated list.
Up to here, all of this could have been achieved with a Computed Signal.
However, the Linked Signal makes it possible to manually set the value in the `overrideFirstBook()` method.
```

- When `books` changes, `firstBook` recalculates to reflect the first item in the updated list.
- However, we can also override the value manually, as shown with the 'jQuery' book. 

### Use Case with Input Signals

A common use for a Linked Signal could be components that reset based on an input signal. 
For example, a shopping cart component might want to reset the quantity field when the selected product changes. 
While we could achieve the same result with `computed`, we also want to be able to set the quantity based on the user's input.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-shopping-cart',
  template: `
    <p>Book: {{ selectedBook().title }}</p>
    <input [(ngModel)]="amount" />
  `,
  standalone: true
})
class ShoppingCartComponent {
  selectedBook = input.required<Book>();
  amount = linkedSignal({
    source: this.selectedBook,
    computation: () => 1 // Resets to 1 when selectedBook changes
  });
}
```

In this case, whenever `selectedBook` changes, the `amount` input resets to `1`. 
This pattern is useful in forms where we want fields to reset to a default state when certain inputs change.

> ## Advanced Scenarios for LinkedSignal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Advanced Scenarios for Linked Signals
```

### Nested State Management

Suppose you have nested data such as book properties (`title` and `rating`), and we want these fields to reset when a different `book` is selected. 

> Here’s how we could manage this with `linkedSignal()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s how we could manage this with a Linked Signal:
```

  title = computed(() => this.book().title);

  rating = linkedSignal({
    source: this.book,
    computation: book => book.rating,
  });

  doRateUp() {
    const newRating = this.rating() + 1;
    this.rating.set(newRating);

    this.ratingChange.emit({ 
      isbn: this.book().isbn,
      newRating
    });
  }
}
```

With this setup, both `title` and `rating` reset when `book` changes, helping to keep data synchronized in cases where the structure of state is hierarchical or dependent on specific identifiers. 
While the Linked Signal makes sure that the data resets when necessary, we can still update our local state directly. 
In this example we update `rating` locally and communicate the change back to the parent component.
Since we don't need to modify the `title` within the component, a simple computed signal fulfils this task.

### Synchronizing Server-Data for Client-Side Edits

A Linked Signal can also help when working with server data that needs to be edited locally.
If we're fetching data from an API but need to allow changes on the client side, we can use `linkedSignal()` to keep local edits in sync with the original server data.

> Here is an example that uses some books from our API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example that uses some books from our HTTP API with a `BookStoreService`:
```

```typescript
import { Component, inject, linkedSignal } from '@angular/core';
import { BookStoreService } from './book-store.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-dashboard',
  template: `
    <ul>
      @for (book of books(); track book.isbn) {
        <li>{{ book.title }}</li>
      }
    </ul>

    <button (click)="sortBooks()">Sort books by rating (locally)</button>
  `,
})
export class DashboardComponent {
  private bookStore = inject(BookStoreService);

  books = linkedSignal(toSignal(this.bookStore.getAllBooks()));

  sortBooks() {
    this.books.update(books => books.toSorted((a, b) => b.rating - a.rating);
  }
}
```

In this example, `books` holds the server data.
Usually we would directly use `toSignal()` to bridge the gap between the Observable from RxJS and the new signal world. 

> However, in this case, we wouldn’t be able to edit the signal in any way (except by updating the Observable). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in this case, we wouldn’t be able to edit the fetched data in any way (except by emitting a new item from the Observable). 
```

But with the help of a Linked Signal, we can still modify the data locally, and any major reset (such as a reload) can restore it to the original source if needed. 
In this example, we’re just sorting the list, but it would also be possible to change the book data and send the updated state back to the server.

> There are many ways to use Linked Signals in our applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Linked Signal vs. Other Signals

Here’s a quick comparison with other types of signals in Angular:

> - **`signal()`**: Creates a basic writable signal that maintains its value independently of other signals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`signal()`**: Creates a basic writable signal that maintains its value independently of other signals. It has a start value, and the value can be overridden with `set()` and `update()`.
```

- **`computed()`**: Creates a read-only signal derived from other signals, recalculating automatically but without allowing manual changes.
- **`linkedSignal()`**: Combines the reactivity of `computed()` with the mutability of `signal()`, allowing the value to be updated manually while remaining linked to a source signal.

Use `computed()` for derived data that doesn’t need to be overridden, while `linkedSignal()` is best for state that should reset based on specific dependencies.

## Best Practices for Using Linked Signal

> Here are some tips for using `linkedSignal()` effectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some tips for using Linked Signals effectively:
```

- **Keep Computation Functions Simple**: Avoid complex calculations in the `computation` function to prevent cyclic dependencies and make your code easier to understand. 
  If a computation leads to a cyclic read of itself, Angular will stop execution with the following error: ["Detected cycle in computations."](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/7d0ba0cac85220cbbe4044667a51e5b95512f5d6/packages/core/primitives/signals/src/computed.ts#L114)
- **Use for Resetting Patterns**: `linkedSignal()` is ideal for cases where you need to reset a state based on a particular signal, like clearing a form field when a new item is selected. 
  If you don't need reset functionality, consider using `computed()` instead.

> - **Consider Effects for Multiple Updates**: If you need multiple signals to react to a single change, using `effect()` might be clearer and more efficient than creating multiple instances of signals created by `linkedSignal()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Consider Effects for Multiple Updates**: If you need multiple signals to react to a single change, using `effect()` might be clearer and more efficient than creating multiple signals with `linkedSignal()`.
```

## Conclusion

The Linked Signal feature in Angular 19 provides a practical solution for managing state that needs to stay in sync with other signals. 

> It fills the gap between `signal()` and `computed()`, offering a new way to handle complex, reactive frontends where state synchronization is essential. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It fills the gap between `signal()` and `computed()`, offering a new way to handle complex reactive frontends where state synchronization is essential. 
```

---
title: 'Angular 19: Introducing LinkedSignal for Responsive Local State Management'
author: Johannes Hoppe
mail: johannes.hoppe@haushoppe-its.de
published: 2024-11-04
lastModified: 2024-11-04
keywords:
  - Angular
  - JavaScript
  - Signals
  - Reactive Programming
  - LinkedSignal
  - Angular 19
  - Computed Signals 
language: en
thumbnail: ???.jpg
sticky: false
---

In Angular 19, there’s a [new experimental feature](https://github.com/angular/angular/commit/8311f00faaf282d1a5b1ddca29247a2fba94a692) called a **Linked Signal** that makes it easier to keep track of local state that depends on other signals. 

It lets us create a writable signal that can automatically reset based on changes in other signals. 
This makes it particularly useful for situations where local state needs to stay in sync with dynamic data. 
Here’s a look at what the Linked Signal is, how it works, and some common use cases.

## Contents

> * [What is LinkedSignal?](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#what-is-linkedSignal)

Reviewer: TOC needs to be adjusted with changed headlines

    this.books.set(['Next.js', 'Svelte', 'Nuxt']);
  }
}
```

In this example:
- The Linked Signal `firstBook` initially points to the first book in the list of `books`.
- When `books` changes, `firstBook` recalculates to reflect the first item in the updated list.
- However, we can also override the value manually, as shown with the 'jQuery' book. 

### Use Case with Input Signals

A common use for a Linked Signal could be components that reset based on an input signal. 
For example, a shopping cart component might want to reset the quantity field when the selected product changes. 
While we could achieve the same result with `computed`, we also want to be able to set the quantity based on the user's input.

```typescript
import { Component, input, linkedSignal } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-shopping-cart',
  template: `
    <p>Book: {{ selectedBook().title }}</p>
    <input [(ngModel)]="amount">`,
  imports: [FormsModule]
})
export class ShoppingCartComponent {
  selectedBook = input.required<Book>();
  amount = linkedSignal({
    source: this.selectedBook,
    computation: () => 1 // Resets to 1 when selectedBook changes
  });
}
```

> In this case, whenever `selectedBook` changes, the `amount` input resets to `1`. 

Reviewer: "amount" is not an input

This pattern is useful in forms where we want fields to reset to a default state when certain inputs change.

## Advanced Scenarios for Linked Signals

### Nested State Management

Suppose you have nested data such as book properties (`title` and `rating`), and we want these fields to reset when a different `book` is selected. 
Here’s how we could manage this with a Linked Signal:

```typescript
import { Component, input, linkedSignal } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-book',
  template: `
    <p>Title: {{ title() }}</p>
    <p>Rating: {{ rating() }}</p>

    <button (click)="doRateUp()">Rate up</button>
  `,
})
class BookComponent  {
  book = input.required<Book>();
  ratingChange = output<{ isbn: string, newRating: number }>();

  title = computed(() => this.book().title);

>   rating = linkedSignal({

Reviewer: I propose that it would be enough here to write it like the computed above with just a function.

    source: this.book,
    computation: book => book.rating,
  });

  doRateUp() {
    const newRating = this.rating() + 1;
    this.rating.set(newRating);

    this.ratingChange.emit({ 
      isbn: this.book().isbn,
      newRating
    });
  }
}
```

With this setup, both `title` and `rating` reset when `book` changes, helping to keep data synchronized in cases where the structure of state is hierarchical or dependent on specific identifiers. 
While the Linked Signal makes sure that the data resets when necessary, we can still update our local state directly. 
In this example we update `rating` locally and communicate the change back to the parent component.
Since we don’t need to modify the `title` within the component, a simple computed signal fulfils this task.

### Synchronizing Server-Data for Client-Side Edits

A Linked Signal is also helpful when working with server data that needs to be edited locally.
If we’re fetching data from an API but need to allow changes on the client side, we can use `linkedSignal()` to keep local edits in sync with the original server data.

> Here is an example that uses data from our HTTP API, fetched through a simple `httpClient` wrapper called `BookStoreService`:

Reviewer: HttpClient

```typescript
import { Component, inject, linkedSignal } from '@angular/core';
import { BookStoreService } from './book-store.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-dashboard',
  template: `
    @for (b of books(); track b.isbn) {
      <app-book
        (ratingChange)="handleRatingChange($event)"
        [book]="b"
      />
    } 

    <button (click)="changeOrder()">Change order (locally)</button>
  `,
})
export class DashboardComponent {
  private bookStore = inject(BookStoreService);

  books = linkedSignal(
    toSignal(this.bookStore.getAllBooks(), { initialValue: [] })
  );

  changeOrder() {
    this.books.update(books => books.toReversed());
  }

>   handleRatingChange({ isbn, newRating }: { isbn: string, newRating: number }) {

Reviewer: Suggestion: to keep the signature readable, you coupd unwrap the object in the template and pass two args here.

Reviewer: I find this very hard to read on mobile

>     this.books.update(books => books.map(b => b.isbn === isbn ? {...b, rating: newRating } : b));

Reviewer: Can we write this in a full block with real if/else and return? I understand what it does but the blog post is not about hoe to upste a book list, so I'd like to keep this as simple and readable as possible.

---
title: 'Angular 19: Introducing LinkedSignal for Responsive Local State Management'
author: Johannes Hoppe
mail: johannes.hoppe@haushoppe-its.de
published: 2024-11-04
lastModified: 2024-11-04
keywords:
  - Angular
  - JavaScript
  - Signals
  - Reactive Programming
  - LinkedSignal
  - Angular 19
  - Computed Signals 
language: en
thumbnail: ???.jpg
sticky: false
---

In Angular 19, there’s a [new experimental feature](https://github.com/angular/angular/commit/8311f00faaf282d1a5b1ddca29247a2fba94a692) called a **Linked Signal** that makes it easier to keep track of local state that depends on other signals. 

It lets us create a writable signal that can automatically reset based on changes in other signals. 
This makes it particularly useful for situations where local state needs to stay in sync with dynamic data. 
Here’s a look at what the Linked Signal is, how it works, and some common use cases.

## Contents

> * [What is a LinkedSignal?](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#what-is-a-linkedsignal)
> * [Basic Usage of LinkedSignal](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#basic-usage-of-linkedsignal)
> * [Advanced Scenarios for LinkedSignal](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#advanced-scenarios-for-linkedsignals)
> * [LinkedSignal vs. Other Signals](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#linkedsignal-vs-other-signals)
> * [Best Practices for Using LinkedSignal](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#best-practices-for-using-linked-signal)
> * [Demo Application](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#demo-application)
> * [Conclusion](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#conclusion)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [What is a Linked Signal?](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#what-is-a-linkedsignal)
* [Basic Usage of Linked Signal](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#basic-usage-of-linked-signal)
* [Advanced Scenarios for Linked Signals](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#advanced-scenarios-for-linked-signals)
* [Linked Signal vs. Other Signals](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#linked-signal-vs-other-signals)
* [Best Practices for Using Linked Signal](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#best-practices-for-using-linked-signal)
* [Demo Application](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#demo-application)
* [Conclusion](/blog/2024-11-linked-signal#conclusion)
```

While the Linked Signal makes sure that the data resets when necessary, we can still update our local state directly. 
In this example we update `rating` locally and communicate the change back to the parent component.
Since we don’t need to modify the `title` within the component, a simple computed signal fulfils this task.

### Synchronizing Server-Data for Client-Side Edits

A Linked Signal is also helpful when working with server data that needs to be edited locally.
If we’re fetching data from an API but need to allow changes on the client side, we can use `linkedSignal()` to keep local edits in sync with the original server data.
Here is an example that uses data from our HTTP API, fetched through a simple `httpClient` wrapper called `BookStoreService`:

```typescript
import { Component, inject, linkedSignal } from '@angular/core';
import { BookStoreService } from './book-store.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-dashboard',
  template: `
    @for (b of books(); track b.isbn) {
      <app-book

>         (ratingChange)="handleRatingChange($event)"

Reviewer: the other side if you change the `handleRatingChange` signature:

```suggestion
        (ratingChange)="handleRatingChange($event.isbn, $event.newRating)"
```

- **Use for Resetting Patterns**: `linkedSignal()` is ideal for cases where you need to reset a state based on a particular signal, like clearing a form field when a new item is selected. 
  If you don't need reset functionality, consider using `computed()` instead.
- **Consider Effects for Multiple Updates**: If you need multiple signals to react to a single change, using `effect()` might be clearer and more efficient than creating multiple signals with `linkedSignal()`.

## Demo Application

To make it easier to see Linked Signals in action, we’ve created a demo application on GitHub that showcases all the examples discussed in this article.
The first link leads to the source code on GitHub, where you can download it.
The second link opens a deployed version of the application for you to try out.
Last but not least, the third link provides an interactive demo on StackBlitz, where you can edit the source code and see the results in real time.

> **[1️⃣ Source on GitHub: demo-linked-signal](https://github.com/angular-schule/demo-linked-signal)**  
> **[2️⃣ Deployed application](https://angular-schule.github.io/demo-linked-signal/)**

> > **[2️⃣ StackBlitz Demo](https://stackblitz.com/github/angular-schule/demo-linked-signal?file=src%2Fapp%2Fbooks%2Fdashboard%2Fdashboard.component.ts)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **[3️⃣ StackBlitz Demo](https://stackblitz.com/github/angular-schule/demo-linked-signal?file=src%2Fapp%2Fbooks%2Fdashboard%2Fdashboard.component.ts)**
```

---
title: 'Angular 19: Introducing LinkedSignal for Responsive Local State Management'
author: Johannes Hoppe and Ferdinand Malcher
mail: team@angular.schule
published: 2024-11-04
lastModified: 2024-11-04
keywords:
  - Angular
  - JavaScript
  - Signals
  - Reactive Programming
  - LinkedSignal
  - Angular 19
  - Computed Signals 
language: en

> thumbnail: ???.jpg

Reviewer: TODO @fmalcher

---
title: 'Angular 19: Introducing LinkedSignal for Responsive Local State Management'
author: Johannes Hoppe and Ferdinand Malcher
mail: team@angular.schule
published: 2024-11-04
lastModified: 2024-11-04
keywords:
  - Angular
  - JavaScript
  - Signals
  - Reactive Programming

>   - LinkedSignal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Linked Signal
```

so wie unten?

```ts
const timestampMs = signal(Date.now());

// computed(): Signal (not writable)
const timestampSeconds = computed(() => timestampMs() / 1000);
timestampSeconds.set(0); // ❌ compilation error

// linkedSignal(): WritableSignal
const timestampSecondsLinked = linkedSignal(() => timestampMs() / 1000);
timestampSecondsLinked.set(0); // ✅ works
```

The signature and usage of `computed()` and `linkedSignal()` look very similar: Both accept a computation function which updates the result value of the signal when any of the bound signals (here: `timestampMs()`) changes.
The difference lies in their return types: While `computed()` returns a read-only `Signal`, the new `linkedSignal` function creates a `WritableSignal`.

That means, we can override the value using `set()` and `update()` whenever required.
A signal created with `computed()` does not allow modifying the value manually.

In this first example, we used the **shorthand syntax** for the Linked Signal.
It is also possible to separate the computation into a second function.
The value of the source is automatically passed into the computation function.

```ts
const timestampMs = signal(Date.now());

> const timestampSecondsLinked = computed({

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const timestampSecondsLinked = linkedSignal({
```

  source: timestampMs,
  computation: ms => ms / 1000
});
```

Whether or not to use the the more elaborate options object with `source` and `computation` over the simpler shorthand syntax depends on use-case and taste.
Both examples for `timestampSecondsLinked` above have the exact same behaviour.
In more complex cases, a separate computation function might make the code more readable.

## Basic Usage of Linked Signal

To see how it works, let’s take a look at a complete example. 
Our component has a list of books in the `books` signal.
Then we’re using a Linked Signal to keep track of the *first book* in the list, created by the `linkedSignal()` factory function.
We decided to use the full notation with an options object. The separate computation makes it more readable, compared to a one-line function that combines source and computation.

> Whenever the list of books changes, the `firstBook` signal will automatically recalculate its value to the first book in the updated list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whenever the list of books changes (`changeBookList()` method), the `firstBook` signal will automatically recalculate its value to the first book in the updated list.
```

However, the Linked Signal makes it possible to manually override the value in the `overrideFirstBook()` method.

```typescript
import { Component, linkedSignal, signal } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-book-list',
  template: `
    <p>First book in list: {{ firstBook() }}</p>
    <button (click)="changeBookList()">Change Book List</button>`
})
export class BookListComponent {
  books = signal(['Angular', 'React', 'Vue']);

  firstBook = linkedSignal({
    source: this.books,
    computation: books => books[0]
  });

  // this also works (shorthand notation)
  // firstBook = linkedSignal(() => this.books()[0]);

  overrideFirstBook() {
    // Manually updating `firstBook`, which now returns 'jQuery'
    this.firstBook.set('jQuery');
  }

  changeBookList() {
    // Changing `books` causes `firstBook` to reset, now returning 'Next.js'
    this.books.set(['Next.js', 'Svelte', 'Nuxt']);
  }
}
```

In this example:
- The Linked Signal `firstBook` initially points to the first book in the list of `books`.
- When `books` changes, `firstBook` recalculates to reflect the first item in the updated list.

> - However, we can also override the value manually, as shown with the 'jQuery' book. 

Reviewer 2: What happens when `changeBookList()` is called after `overrideFirstBook()`. Computed again?

Reviewer: Yes, the latest value counts. `books` is the source of the Linked Signal, so when it changes, the Signal recomputes.

| Action | `firstBook()` |
| --- | --- |
| init | `Angular` |
| `overrideFirstBook()` | `jQuery` |
| `changeBookList()` | `Next.js` |

| Action | `firstBook()` |
| --- | --- |
| init | `Angular` |
| `changeBookList()` | `Next.js` |
| `overrideFirstBook()` | `jQuery` |

We then change the order of the book list whenever the method `changeOrder()` is called.
We’re also handling the `ratingChange` event from the previous example.
The corresponding `handleRatingChange` method accepts the identifier `isbn` and the new rating, and replaces the outdated book entity with an updated copy.
To complete the flow, it would also be possible to modify the book data and send the updated state back to the server.

## Linked Signal vs. Other Signals

Here’s a quick comparison with other types of signals in Angular:

- **`signal()`**: Creates a basic writable signal that maintains its value independently of other signals. It has a start value, and the value can be overridden with `set()` and `update()`.
- **`computed()`**: Creates a read-only signal derived from other signals, recalculating automatically but without allowing manual changes.
- **`linkedSignal()`**: Combines the reactivity of `computed()` with the mutability of `signal()`, allowing the value to be updated manually while remaining linked to a source signal.

> We recommend to use `computed()` for derived data that doesn’t need to be overridden, while `linkedSignal()` is best for state that should reset based on specific dependencies.

Reviewer 2: Den Satz würde ich glaube weglassen, weil das ja implizit auch nicht anders geht. Andersherum: wir könnten nicht empfehlen ein Computed zu verwenden und es zu überschreiben, weil es nicht möglich ist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend to only use `linkedSignal()` for state that should reset based on specific dependencies. Please continue to use `computed()` for derived data that doesn’t need to be overridden.
```

}
```

> In this case, whenever selectedBook changes, the value of amount resets to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, whenever `selectedBook` changes, the value of `amount` resets to 1.
```

> The input field reflects this change and resets to 1 as well.

Reviewer: Which input field? `selectedBook` is the only input and it shouldn't reset?

Reviewer: Aaah, "input property" and "input field" could be the same 😅

```suggestion
The `<input>` field in the template reflects this change and resets to 1 as well.
```
